# SpACER

The Character Error Rate (CER) and Word Error Rate (WER), are critical mainstays of evaluating the quality of Optical Character Recognition (OCR). However, these metrics assume that text has been perfectly parsed, which is often not the case. Under page parsing errors, CER and WER become undefined, limiting them to a role of local metric, making evaluating page-level OCR challenging. We introduce the Character Distribution Divergence (CDD) and Word Distribution Divergence (WDD), which integrate both parsing and OCR errors into a single value. In addition, these metrics decompose into parsing and OCR error components. This decomposability allows practitioners to focus on the part of the Document Understanding (DU) pipeline that will have the most impact on the overall quality of text extraction. We demonstrate this approach using both case studies and data analysis. We test the CDD using Jensen-Shannon distances, Angular Distance and the Bag of Characters Error Rate. We show that these metrics can be used to evaluate DU quality even when only paragraph level information is known. We also show that although, for optimal triage, the CDD/WDD requires character-level positioning, the triaging only loses a small fraction of accuracy when bounding boxes are drawn at the line level. Remarkably, we show that the CDD can also show the parsing quality of end-to-end OCR models, which do not have explicit page parsing. We provide the CDD and WDD code as part of a python library to support DU research.

# ToDo

The full decomposition is not a very smooth experience, this needs to b re architectured so that micro SpACER and macro SpACER can both be sensibly calculated
